.\" $Id: server.conf.5,v 1.1 2005/09/09 15:26:13 tat Exp $
.TH server.conf 5 "14 June 2005"
.SH NAME
server.conf \- KLONE server configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B server.conf
is the file which determines the services provided by the KLONE 
.BR server (8) .  
It contains entries, one for each line, of the following form:
.RS
.nf
.ft B
.sp
# this is a comment
<attribute>  <values>
.I "..."
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP
where 
.B attribute ::= cstring | attribute '.' cstring

Basically each entry defines an attribute in a given namespace, [...] . The 
following is a list of the available attributes for each namespace.

.B NameSpace -> server.httpsd.*
.TP 16
.B cert_file
PEM-encoded certificate file for the server and optionally also to the 
corresponding RSA or DSA Private Key file for it (contained in the same file).
The certificate should be configured with the Common Name matching the fully 
qualified domain name of the server.  This parameter is mandatory.

.TP 16
.B key_file
PEM-encoded private key file for the server. If the private key is not combined
with the certificate in the 
.B cert_file,
use this additional directive to point to the file with the stand-alone 
private key.  When 
.B cert_file 
is used and the file contains both the certificate and the private key 
this directive need not be used.  But we strongly discourage this practice.  
Instead we recommend you to separate the certificate and the private key.

.TP 16
.B certchain_file
optional all-in-one file where you can assemble the certificates of 
Certification Authorities (CA) which form the certificate chain of the 
server certificate.  This starts with the issuing CA certificate of of 
the server certificate and can range up to the root CA certificate.  
Such a file is simply the concatenation of the various PEM-encoded CA 
Certificate files, usually in certificate chain order.  This is intended 
for instance for the Verisign Global-ID situation where one 
.I has
to send the intermediate CA of Verisign with the GID while one wants to 
avoid that under client authentication all clients issued by this CA are 
accepted, which would happen when one references the CA cert via 
.B ca_file.

.TP 16
.B ca_file
all-in-one file where you can assemble the certificates of Certification 
Authorities (CA) for all certificates expected from clients.  These are used 
for Client authentication.  Such a file is simply the concatenation of the 
various PEM-encoded certificate files, in order of preference.  It is 
mandatory when 
.B verify_client 
is 
.I required 
.

.TP 16
.B dh_file
PEM-encoded file containing Diffie-Hellman parameters to be used on session 
data negotiation phase.  When missing a default set of 1024-bit DH parameters 
is used.  Note that RSA ephemeral parameters are always created automatically.

.TP 16
.B verify_depth
This directive sets how deeply openssl should verify before deciding that the 
clients don't have a valid certificate.  The depth actually is the maximum 
number of intermediate certificate issuers, i.e. the number of CA certificates 
which are max allowed to be followed while verifying the client certificate.  
A depth of 0 means that self-signed client certificates are accepted only, 
the default depth of 1 means the client certificate can be self-signed or has 
to be signed by a CA which is directly known to the server, i.e. the CA's 
certificate is under 
.B ca_file, 
etc.

.TP 16
.B verify_client
This directive sets the certificate verification level for the Client 
authentication.  The following values are available:
.RS
.TP 10
.B NO
no client certificate is required at all
.TP
.B OPTIONAL
the client may present a valid certificate
.TP
.B REQUIRED
the client has to present a valid certificate.
.RE
.TP
.B ""
Note that
.B optional
makes sense only in testing scenarios.  The default value is
.B NO.

.SH SEE ALSO
server(8),
klone(8),
klone-site(8)

http://www.koanlogic.com
