.\" $Id: kloned.8,v 1.2 2009/10/23 14:08:28 tho Exp $
.TH "KLONED" "8" "11/03/2005" "KoanLogic Srl" "KoanLogic Srl"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
kloned \- klone daemon
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP 7
\fBkloned\fR [\fB\-d\fR] [\fB\-f\ \fR\fB\fIfile\fR\fR] [\fB\-c\fR] [\fB\-F\fR] [\fB\-h\fR] [\fB\-i\fR] [\fB\-u\fR] [\fB\-p\ \fR\fB\fIfile\fR\fR] [\fB\-n\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBkloned\fR
merges a web server (or CGI to be plugged into other CGI\-compliant web servers), its compressed configuration, together with the static and dynamic web contents into a single executable file.
.PP
The process of creating the
\fBkloned\fR
executable, by embedding the web content into the server process, is documented in the
\fBklone\fR(1)
manual page.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\-d
Enable verbose logging for debugging purposes.
.TP
\-f \fIconfig_file\fR
Load further configuration parameters from the external file
\fIconfig_file\fR
besides those found in the embedded configuration file
\fIsup://etc/kloned.conf\fR. Parameters in
\fIconf_file\fR
override the values of those with the same name in the embedded configuration file.
.TP
\-c
Read configuration sections from standard input (until EOF is found), overriding
values contained in default and custom configuration files. For example:
.sp
.nf
    $ cat << EOF | ./kloned -c
    > app_http
    > {
    > addr      tcp4://*:8081
    > dir_root  /www2
    > }
    > EOF
.fi
.sp
will override the default address and root directory values for a previously defined backend "app_http".
.TP
\-F
If specified, this parameter causes the main
\fBkloned\fR
process to not detach from the terminal. HTTP/HTTPS requests are served iteratively: no child is forked to handle the client connection.
.TP
\-p \fIpid_file\fR
Save 
\fBkloned\fR 
daemon pid to 
\fIpid_file\fR.
.TP
\-h
Display a summary of command\-line options and exit.
.TP
\-n
Do not change dir when becoming daemon.
.TP
\-i
Install
\fBkloned\fR
service and exit (only available on Windows).
.TP
\-u
Uninstall
\fBkloned\fR
service and exit (only available on Windows).
.TP
\-V
Print klone version and exit.
.SH "FILES"
.PP
\fBkloned\fR
depends on
\fIsup://etc/kloned.conf\fR
for the configuration of its instances (clones). Additional configuration can be supplied via an external file (the
\fB\-f\fR
command line flag): see
\fBkloned.conf\fR(5)
for details on available configuration parameters and their respective values.
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.PP
KLone
is a product targeted for embedded systems, especially those with limited or no disk resources; as such it tries to reduce logging activity to a minumum (at its best, zero logging).
.PP
Diagnostics issued by
\fBkloned\fR
are passed to the
\fBsyslogd\fR(8), subsystem with facility
\fBLOG_LOCAL0\fR
and priority
\fBLOG_DEBUG\fR
and can be routed to a configurable file (see
\fBsyslog.conf\fR(5)
for details).
.PP
The number and nature of diagnostics available depends on the debug level defined at compile\-time. If you are having problems, compile the
KLone
application with
\fBNDEBUG\fR
unset, configure the syslog daemon appropriately, run your application and peruse the log files. Most messages are reasonably self\-explanatory. At this stage your best bet is still to grep the source code and inspect the conditions that gave rise to the diagnostics you are seeing.
.PP
\fBkloned\fR
is a service/daemon, as such it will bail out with an
\fBEXIT_SUCCESS\fR
exit code only if explicitly requested to terminate (i.e.
\fBSIGTERM\fR
or
\fBSIGINT\fR), otherwise it will exit with
\fBEXIT_FAILURE\fR.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.PP
The following environment variables affect the execution of
\fBkloned\fR:
.TP
\fBGATEWAY_INTERFACE\fR
If set,
\fBkloned\fR
assumes it has been run as a CGI script by an external web server.
.SH "SIGNALS"
.PP
To shut down a user's
\fBkloned\fR
process it is recommended that
\fBSIGKILL \fR\fInot\fR
be used, except as a last resort. The safe way to terminate a
\fBkloned\fR
is to send it a
\fBSIGTERM\fR
or
\fBSIGINT\fR
signal and wait for it to die on its own.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fBkloned.conf\fR(5),
\fBklone\fR(1).
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
Sure there are some. If you find one, please email it to
<klone\-bug@koanlogic.com>.
